<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIII: Forestalled</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-33" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Forestalled</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Travelling all that long summer day, first from the southwest of England to the Midlands, then from the Midlands to the north, Spargo and Breton came late at night to Hawes‚Äô Junction, on the border of Yorkshire and Westmoreland, and saw rising all around them in the half-darkness the mighty bulks of the great fells which rise amongst that wild and lonely stretch of land. At that hour of the night and amidst that weird silence, broken only by the murmur of some adjacent waterfall the scene was impressive and suggestive; it seemed to Spargo as if London were a million miles away, and the rush and bustle of human life a thing of another planet. Here and there in the valleys he saw a light, but such lights were few and far between; even as he looked some of them twinkled and went out. It was evident that he and Breton were presently to be alone with the night.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow far?‚Äù he asked Breton as they walked away from the station.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe‚Äôd better discuss matters,‚Äù answered Breton. ‚ÄúThe place is in a narrow valley called Fossdale, some six or seven miles away across these fells, and as wild a walk as any lover of such things could wish for. It‚Äôs half-past nine now, Spargo: I reckon it will take us a good two and a half hours, if not more, to do it. Now, the question is‚ÅÝ‚ÄîDo we go straight there, or do we put up for the night? There‚Äôs an inn here at this junction: there‚Äôs the Moor Cock Inn a mile or so along the road which we must take before we turn off to the moorland and the fells. It‚Äôs going to be a black night‚ÅÝ‚Äîlook at those masses of black cloud gathering there!‚ÅÝ‚Äîand possibly a wet one, and we‚Äôve no waterproofs. But it‚Äôs for you to say‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚Äôm game for whatever you like.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you know the way?‚Äù asked Spargo.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve been the way. In the daytime I could go straight ahead. I remember all the landmarks. Even in the darkness I believe I can find my way. But it‚Äôs rough walking.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe‚Äôll go straight there,‚Äù said Spargo. ‚ÄúEvery minute‚Äôs precious. But‚ÅÝ‚Äîcan we get a mouthful of bread and cheese and a glass of ale first?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood idea! We‚Äôll call in at the ‚ÄòMoor Cock.‚Äô Now then, while we‚Äôre on this firm road, step it out lively.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The ‚ÄúMoor Cock‚Äù was almost deserted at that hour: there was scarcely a soul in it when the two travellers turned in to its dimly-lighted parlour. The landlord, bringing the desired refreshment, looked hard at Breton.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCome our way again then, sir?‚Äù he remarked with a sudden grin of recognition.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh, you remember me?‚Äù said Breton.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI call in mind when you came here with the two old gents last year,‚Äù replied the landlord. ‚ÄúI hear they‚Äôre here again‚ÅÝ‚ÄîTom Summers was coming across that way this morning, and said he‚Äôd seen ‚Äôem at the little cottage. Going to join ‚Äôem, I reckon, sir?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Breton kicked Spargo under the table.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, we‚Äôre going to have a day or two with them,‚Äù he answered. ‚ÄúJust to get a breath of your moorland air.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, you‚Äôll have a roughish walk over there tonight, gentlemen,‚Äù said the landlord. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs going to be a storm. And it‚Äôs a stiffish way to make out at this time o‚Äônight.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, we‚Äôll manage,‚Äù said Breton, nonchalantly. ‚ÄúI know the way, and we‚Äôre not afraid of a wet skin.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The landlord laughed, and sitting down on his long settle folded his arms and scratched his elbows.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere was a gentleman‚ÅÝ‚ÄîLondon gentleman by his tongue‚ÅÝ‚Äîcame in here this afternoon, and asked the way to Fossdale,‚Äù he observed. ‚ÄúHe‚Äôll be there long since‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe‚Äôd have daylight for his walk. Happen he‚Äôs one of your party?‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe asked where the old gentlemen‚Äôs little cottage was.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Again Spargo felt his shin kicked and made no sign. ‚ÄúOne of their friends, perhaps,‚Äù answered Breton. ‚ÄúWhat was he like?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The landlord ruminated. He was not good at description and was conscious of the fact.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, a darkish, serious-faced gentleman,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúStranger hereabouts, at all events. Wore a grey suit‚ÅÝ‚Äîsomething like your friend‚Äôs there. Yes‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe took some bread and cheese with him when he heard what a long way it was.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWise man,‚Äù remarked Breton. He hastily finished his own bread and cheese, and drank off the rest of his pint of ale. ‚ÄúCome on,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúlet‚Äôs be stepping.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Outside, in the almost tangible darkness, Breton clutched Spargo‚Äôs arm. ‚ÄúWho‚Äôs the man?‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúCan you think, Spargo?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCan‚Äôt,‚Äù answered Spargo. ‚ÄúI was trying to, while that chap was talking. But‚ÅÝ‚Äîit‚Äôs somebody that‚Äôs got in before us. Not Rathbury, anyhow‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe‚Äôs not serious-faced. Heavens, Breton, however are you going to find your way in this darkness?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôll see presently. We follow the road a little. Then we turn up the fell side there. On the top, if the night clears a bit, we ought to see Great Shunnor Fell and Lovely Seat‚ÅÝ‚Äîthey‚Äôre both well over two thousand feet, and they stand up well. We want to make for a point clear between them. But I warn you, Spargo, it‚Äôs stiff going!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGo ahead!‚Äù said Spargo. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs the first time in my life I ever did anything of this sort, but we‚Äôre going on if it takes us all night. I couldn‚Äôt sleep in any bed now that I‚Äôve heard there‚Äôs somebody ahead of us. Go first, old chap, and I‚Äôll follow.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Breton went steadily forward along the road. That was easy work, but when he turned off and began to thread his way up the fell-side by what was obviously no more than a sheep-track, Spargo‚Äôs troubles began. It seemed to him that he was walking as in a nightmare; all that he saw was magnified and heightened; the darkening sky above; the faint outlines of the towering hills; the gaunt spectres of fir and pine; the figure of Breton forging stolidly and surely ahead. Now the ground was soft and spongy under his feet; now it was stony and rugged; more than once he caught an ankle in the wire-like heather and tripped, bruising his knees. And in the end he resigned himself to keeping his eye on Breton, outlined against the sky, and following doggedly in his footsteps.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWas there no other way than this?‚Äù he asked after a long interval of silence. ‚ÄúDo you mean to say those two‚ÅÝ‚ÄîElphick and Cardlestone‚ÅÝ‚Äîwould take this way?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere is another way‚ÅÝ‚Äîdown the valley, by Thwaite Bridge and Hardraw,‚Äù answered Breton, ‚Äúbut it‚Äôs miles and miles round. This is a straight cut across country, and in daylight it‚Äôs a delightful walk. But at night‚ÅÝ‚ÄîGad!‚ÅÝ‚Äîhere‚Äôs the rain, Spargo!‚Äù</p>
			<p>The rain came down as it does in that part of the world, with a suddenness that was as fierce as it was heavy. The whole of the grey night was blotted out; Spargo was only conscious that he stood in a vast solitude and was being gradually drowned. But Breton, whose sight was keener, and who had more knowledge of the situation dragged his companion into the shelter of a group of rocks. He laughed a little as they huddled closely together.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThis is a different sort of thing to pursuing detective work in Fleet Street, Spargo,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúYou would come on, you know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm going on if we go through cataracts and floods,‚Äù answered Spargo. ‚ÄúI might have been induced to stop at the ‚ÄòMoor Cock‚Äô overnight if we hadn‚Äôt heard of that chap in front. If he‚Äôs after those two he‚Äôs somebody who knows something. What I can‚Äôt make out is‚ÅÝ‚Äîwho he can be.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNor I,‚Äù said Breton. ‚ÄúI can‚Äôt think of anybody who knows of this retreat. But‚ÅÝ‚Äîhas it ever struck you, Spargo, that somebody beside yourself may have been investigating?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPossible,‚Äù replied Spargo. ‚ÄúOne never knows. I only wish we‚Äôd been a few hours earlier. For I wanted to have the first word with those two.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The rain ceased as suddenly as it had come. Just as suddenly the heavens cleared. And going forward to the top of the ridge which they were then crossing, Breton pointed an arm to something shining far away below them.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou see that?‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs a sheet of water lying between us and Cotterdale. We leave that on our right hand, climb the fell beyond it, drop down into Cotterdale, cross two more ranges of fell, and come down into Fossdale under Lovely Seat. There‚Äôs a good two hours and a half stiff pull yet, Spargo. Think you can stick it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Spargo set his teeth.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGo on!‚Äù he said.</p>
			<p>Up hill, down dale, now up to his ankles in peaty ground, now tearing his shins, now bruising his knees, Spargo, yearning for the London lights, the well-paved London streets, the convenient taxicab, even the humble omnibus, plodded forward after his guide. It seemed to him that they had walked for ages and had traversed a whole continent of mountains and valley when at last Breton, halting on the summit of a windswept ridge, laid one hand on his companion‚Äôs shoulder and pointed downward with the other.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere!‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúThere!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Spargo looked ahead into the night. Far away, at what seemed to him to be a considerable distance, he saw the faint, very faint glimmer of a light‚ÅÝ‚Äîa mere spark of a light.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs the cottage,‚Äù said Breton. ‚ÄúLate as it is, you see, they‚Äôre up. And here‚Äôs the roughest bit of the journey. It‚Äôll take me all my time to find the track across this moor, Spargo, so step carefully after me‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere are bogs and holes hereabouts.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Another hour had gone by ere the two came to the cottage. Sometimes the guiding light had vanished, blotted out by intervening rises in the ground; always, when they saw it again, they were slowly drawing nearer to it. And now when they were at last close to it, Spargo realized that he found himself in one of the loneliest places he had ever been capable of imagining‚ÅÝ‚Äîso lonely and desolate a spot he had certainly never seen. In the dim light he could see a narrow, crawling stream, making its way down over rocks and stones from the high ground of Great Shunnor Fell. Opposite to the place at which they stood, on the edge of the moorland, a horseshoe like formation of ground was backed by a ring of fir and pine; beneath this protecting fringe of trees stood a small building of grey stone which looked as if it had been originally built by some shepherd as a pen for the moorland sheep. It was of no more than one storey in height, but of some length; a considerable part of it was hidden by shrubs and brushwood. And from one uncurtained, blindless window the light of a lamp shone boldly into the fading darkness without.</p>
			<p>Breton pulled up on the edge of the crawling stream.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe‚Äôve got to get across there, Spargo,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúBut as we‚Äôre already soaked to the knee it doesn‚Äôt matter about getting another wetting. Have you any idea how long we‚Äôve been walking?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHours‚ÅÝ‚Äîdays‚ÅÝ‚Äîyears!‚Äù replied Spargo.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI should say quite four hours,‚Äù said Breton. ‚ÄúIn that case, it‚Äôs well past two o‚Äôclock, and the light will be breaking in another hour or so. Now, once across this stream, what shall we do?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat have we come to do? Go to the cottage, of course!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWait a bit. No need to startle them. By the fact they‚Äôve got a light, I take it that they‚Äôre up. Look there!‚Äù</p>
			<p>As he spoke, a figure crossed the window passing between it and the light.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs not Elphick, nor yet Cardlestone,‚Äù said Spargo. ‚ÄúThey‚Äôre medium-heighted men. That‚Äôs a tallish man.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen it‚Äôs the man the landlord of the ‚ÄòMoor Cock‚Äô told us about,‚Äù said Breton. ‚ÄúNow, look here‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI know every inch of this place. When we‚Äôre across let me go up to the cottage, and I‚Äôll take an observation through that window and see who‚Äôs inside. Come on.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He led Spargo across the stream at a place where a succession of boulders made a natural bridge, and bidding him keep quiet, went up the bank to the cottage. Spargo, watching him, saw him make his way past the shrubs and undergrowth until he came to a great bush which stood between the lighted window and the projecting porch of the cottage. He lingered in the shadow of this bush but for a short moment; then came swiftly and noiselessly back to his companion. His hand fell on Spargo‚Äôs arm with a clutch of nervous excitement.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSpargo!‚Äù he whispered. ‚ÄúWho on earth do you think the other man is?‚Äù</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
