<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VIII: The Man from the Safe Deposit</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Man from the Safe Deposit</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Spargo found Rathbury sitting alone in a small, somewhat dismal apartment which was chiefly remarkable for the businesslike paucity of its furnishings and its indefinable air of secrecy. There was a plain writing-table and a hard chair or two; a map of London, much discoloured, on the wall; a few faded photographs of eminent bands in the world of crime, and a similar number of well-thumbed books of reference. The detective himself, when Spargo was shown in to him, was seated at the table, chewing an unlighted cigar, and engaged in the apparently aimless task of drawing hieroglyphics on scraps of paper. He looked up as the journalist entered, and held out his hand.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I congratulate you on what you stuck in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Watchman</i> this morning,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúMade extra good reading, I thought. They did right to let you tackle that job. Going straight through with it now, I suppose, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSpargo?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Spargo dropped into the chair nearest to Rathbury‚Äôs right hand. He lighted a cigarette, and having blown out a whiff of smoke, nodded his head in a fashion which indicated that the detective might consider his question answered in the affirmative.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLook here,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúWe settled yesterday, didn‚Äôt we, that you and I are to consider ourselves partners, as it were, in this job? That‚Äôs all right,‚Äù he continued, as Rathbury nodded very quietly. ‚ÄúVery well‚ÅÝ‚Äîhave you made any further progress?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rathbury put his thumbs in the armholes of his waistcoat and, leaning back in his chair, shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFrankly, I haven‚Äôt,‚Äù he replied. ‚ÄúOf course, there‚Äôs a lot being done in the usual official-routine way. We‚Äôve men out making various enquiries. We‚Äôre enquiring about Marbury‚Äôs voyage to England. All that we know up to now is that he was certainly a passenger on a liner which landed at Southampton in accordance with what he told those people at the Anglo-Orient, that he left the ship in the usual way and was understood to take the train to town‚ÅÝ‚Äîas he did. That‚Äôs all. There‚Äôs nothing in that. We‚Äôve cabled to Melbourne for any news of him from there. But I expect little from that.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAll right,‚Äù said Spargo. ‚ÄúAnd‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat are you doing‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou, yourself? Because, if we‚Äôre to share facts, I must know what my partner‚Äôs after. Just now, you seemed to be‚ÅÝ‚Äîdrawing.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rathbury laughed.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, to tell you the truth,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúwhen I want to work things out, I come into this room‚ÅÝ‚Äîit‚Äôs quiet, as you see‚ÅÝ‚Äîand I scribble anything on paper while I think. I was figuring on my next step, and‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you see it?‚Äù asked Spargo, quickly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI want to find the man who went with Marbury to that hotel,‚Äù replied Rathbury. ‚ÄúIt seems to me‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>Spargo wagged his finger at his fellow-contriver.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve found him,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs what I wrote that article for‚ÅÝ‚Äîto find him. I knew it would find him. I‚Äôve never had any training in your sort of work, but I knew that article would get him. And it has got him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rathbury accorded the journalist a look of admiration.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood!‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúAnd‚ÅÝ‚Äîwho is he?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôll tell you the story,‚Äù answered Spargo, ‚Äúand in a summary. This morning a man named Webster, a farmer, a visitor to London, came to me at the office, and said that being at the House of Commons last night he witnessed a meeting between Marbury and a man who was evidently a Member of Parliament, and saw them go away together. I showed him an album of photographs of the present members, and he immediately recognized the portrait of one of them as the man in question. I thereupon took the portrait to the Anglo-Orient Hotel‚ÅÝ‚Äî<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝWalters also at once recognized it as that of the man who came to the hotel with Marbury, stopped with him a while in his room, and left with him. The man is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝStephen Aylmore, the member for Brookminster.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rathbury expressed his feelings in a sharp whistle.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI know him!‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúOf course‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI remember <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝWalters‚Äôs description now. But his is a familiar type‚ÅÝ‚Äîtall, grey-bearded, well-dressed. Um!‚ÅÝ‚Äîwell, we‚Äôll have to see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝAylmore at once.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve seen him,‚Äù said Spargo. ‚ÄúNaturally! For you see, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝWalters gave me a bit more evidence. This morning they found a loose diamond on the floor of Number 20, and after it was found the waiter who took the drinks up to Marbury and his guest that night remembered that when he entered the room the two gentlemen were looking at a paper full of similar objects. So then I went on to see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝAylmore. You know young Breton, the barrister?‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou met him with me, you remember?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe young fellow whose name and address were found on Marbury,‚Äù replied Rathbury. ‚ÄúI remember.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBreton is engaged to Aylmore‚Äôs daughter,‚Äù continued Spargo. ‚ÄúBreton took me to Aylmore‚Äôs club. And Aylmore gives a plain, straightforward account of the matter which he‚Äôs granted me leave to print. It clears up a lot of things. Aylmore knew Marbury over twenty years ago. He lost sight of him. They met accidentally in the lobby of the House on the evening preceding the murder. Marbury told him that he wanted his advice about those rare things, Australian diamonds. He went back with him to his hotel and spent a while with him; then they walked out together as far as Waterloo Bridge, where Aylmore left him and went home. Further, the scrap of grey paper is accounted for. Marbury wanted the address of a smart solicitor; Aylmore didn‚Äôt know of one but told Marbury that if he called on young Breton, he‚Äôd know, and would put him in the way to find one. Marbury wrote Breton‚Äôs address down. That‚Äôs Aylmore‚Äôs story. But it‚Äôs got an important addition. Aylmore says that when he left Marbury, Marbury had on him a quantity of those diamonds in a wash-leather bag, a lot of gold, and a breast-pocket full of letters and papers. Now‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere was nothing on him when he was found dead in Middle Temple Lane.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Spargo stopped and lighted a fresh cigarette.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs all I know,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúWhat do you make of it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rathbury leaned back in his chair in his apparently favourite attitude and stared hard at the dusty ceiling above him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt know,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúIt brings things up to a point, certainly. Aylmore and Marbury parted at Waterloo Bridge‚ÅÝ‚Äîvery late. Waterloo Bridge is pretty well next door to the Temple. But‚ÅÝ‚Äîhow did Marbury get into the Temple, unobserved? We‚Äôve made every enquiry, and we can‚Äôt trace him in any way as regards that movement. There‚Äôs a clue for his going there in the scrap of paper bearing Breton‚Äôs address, but even a Colonial would know that no business was done in the Temple at midnight, eh?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell,‚Äù said Spargo, ‚ÄúI‚Äôve thought of one or two things. He may have been one of those men who like to wander around at night. He may have seen‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe would see‚ÅÝ‚Äîplenty of lights in the Temple at that hour; he may have slipped in unobserved‚ÅÝ‚Äîit‚Äôs possible, it‚Äôs quite possible. I once had a moonlight saunter in the Temple myself after midnight, and had no difficulty about walking in and out, either. But‚ÅÝ‚Äîif Marbury was murdered for the sake of what he had on him‚ÅÝ‚Äîhow did he meet with his murderer or murderers in there? Criminals don‚Äôt hang about Middle Temple Lane.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The detective shook his head. He picked up his pencil and began making more hieroglyphics.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs your theory, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSpargo?‚Äù he asked suddenly. ‚ÄúI suppose you‚Äôve got one.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHave you?‚Äù asked Spargo, bluntly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell,‚Äù returned Rathbury, hesitatingly, ‚ÄúI hadn‚Äôt, up to now. But now‚ÅÝ‚Äînow, after what you‚Äôve told me, I think I can make one. It seems to me that after Marbury left Aylmore he probably mooned about by himself, that he was decoyed into the Temple, and was there murdered and robbed. There are a lot of queer ins and outs, nooks and corners in that old spot, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSpargo, and the murderer, if he knew his ground well, could easily hide himself until he could get away in the morning. He might be a man who had access to chambers or offices‚ÅÝ‚Äîthink how easy it would be for such a man, having once killed and robbed his victim, to lie hid for hours afterwards? For aught we know, the man who murdered Marbury may have been within twenty feet of you when you first saw his dead body that morning. Eh?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Before Spargo could reply to this suggestion an official entered the room and whispered a few words in the detective‚Äôs ear.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShow him in at once,‚Äù said Rathbury. He turned to Spargo as the man quitted the room and smiled significantly. ‚ÄúHere‚Äôs somebody wants to tell something about the Marbury case,‚Äù he remarked. ‚ÄúLet‚Äôs hope it‚Äôll be news worth hearing.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Spargo smiled in his queer fashion.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt strikes me that you‚Äôve only got to interest an inquisitive public in order to get news,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúThe principal thing is to investigate it when you‚Äôve got it. Who‚Äôs this, now?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The official had returned with a dapper-looking gentleman in a frock-coat and silk hat, bearing upon him the unmistakable stamp of the city man, who inspected Rathbury with deliberation and Spargo with a glance, and being seated turned to the detective as undoubtedly the person he desired to converse with.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI understand that you are the officer in charge of the Marbury murder case,‚Äù he observed. ‚ÄúI believe I can give you some valuable information in respect to that. I read the account of the affair in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Watchman</i> newspaper this morning, and saw the portrait of the murdered man there, and I was at first inclined to go to the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Watchman</i> office with my information, but I finally decided to approach the police instead of the Press, regarding the police as being more‚ÅÝ‚Äîmore responsible.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMuch obliged to you, sir,‚Äù said Rathbury, with a glance at Spargo. ‚ÄúWhom have I the pleasure of‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy name,‚Äù replied the visitor, drawing out and laying down a card, ‚Äúis Myerst‚ÅÝ‚Äî<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬Ý<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">E. P.</abbr> Myerst, Secretary of the London and Universal Safe Deposit Company. I may, I suppose, speak with confidence,‚Äù continued <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMyerst, with a side-glance at Spargo. ‚ÄúMy information is‚ÅÝ‚Äîconfidential.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rathbury inclined his head and put his fingers together.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou may speak with every confidence, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMyerst,‚Äù he answered. ‚ÄúIf what you have to tell has any real bearing on the Marbury case, it will probably have to be repeated in public, you know, sir. But at present it will be treated as private.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt has a very real bearing on the case, I should say,‚Äù replied <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMyerst. ‚ÄúYes, I should decidedly say so. The fact is that on June 21st at about‚ÅÝ‚Äîto be precise‚ÅÝ‚Äîthree o‚Äôclock in the afternoon, a stranger, who gave the name of John Marbury, and his present address as the Anglo-Orient Hotel, Waterloo, called at our establishment, and asked if he could rent a small safe. He explained to me that he desired to deposit in such a safe a small leather box‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhich, by the by, was of remarkably ancient appearance‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat he had brought with him. I showed him a safe such as he wanted, informed him of the rent, and of the rules of the place, and he engaged the safe, paid the rent for one year in advance, and deposited his leather box‚ÅÝ‚Äîan affair of about a foot square‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere and then. After that, having exchanged a remark or two about the altered conditions of London, which, I understood him to say, he had not seen for a great many years, he took his key and his departure. I think there can be no doubt about this being the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMarbury who was found murdered.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNone at all, I should say, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMyerst,‚Äù said Rathbury. ‚ÄúAnd I‚Äôm much obliged to you for coming here. Now you might tell me a little more, sir. Did Marbury tell you anything about the contents of the box?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo. He merely remarked that he wished the greatest care to be taken of it,‚Äù replied the secretary.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDidn‚Äôt give you any hint as to what was in it?‚Äù asked Rathbury.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNone. But he was very particular to assure himself that it could not be burnt, nor burgled, nor otherwise molested,‚Äù replied <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMyerst. ‚ÄúHe appeared to be greatly relieved when he found that it was impossible for anyone but himself to take his property from his safe.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh!‚Äù said Rathbury, winking at Spargo. ‚ÄúSo he would, no doubt. And Marbury himself, sir, now? How did he strike you?‚Äù</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMyerst gravely considered this question.</p>
			<p>‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMarbury struck me,‚Äù he answered at last, ‚Äúas a man who had probably seen strange places. And before leaving he made, what I will term, a remarkable remark. About‚ÅÝ‚Äîin fact, about his leather box.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHis leather box?‚Äù said Rathbury. ‚ÄúAnd what was it, sir?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThis,‚Äù replied the secretary. ‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòThat box,‚Äô he said, ‚Äòis safe now. But it‚Äôs been safer. It‚Äôs been buried‚ÅÝ‚Äîand deep-down, too‚ÅÝ‚Äîfor many and many a year!‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
